Add Validate and Apply Operations Example (#1023)
mulesoft/docs-connectors: wss/1.0/modules/ROOT/pages/validate-wss-examples.adoc

= Validate Operation Examples

> This `validate` operation validates an incoming SOAP request that contains WSS information. The WSS module validates the request against a `WssInboundConfig` configuration.

Reviewer: The peer `apply` operation intro. uses "The" instead of "This."

Is the following text meant to define what a validate operation is, and then refer specifically to the examples following?

.Parameters
[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a*"]
|===
| Name | M | ES | Default Value | Type | Description

> | `request` | Yes | No | - | `TypedValue <InputStream>` | SOAP request

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `request` | Yes | No | n.a. | `TypedValue <InputStream>` | SOAP request
```

| `version` | No | No | `SOAP_12` | `SoapVersion` | SOAP protocol version
|===

> Output::

Reviewer: ditto comments in previous .adoc review

> The output is the same SOAP request received. The operation does not return any attribute.

Reviewer: I don't understand the first sentence: "output is the same SOAP request received"?
Also, "any attributes":
```suggestion
The output is the same SOAP request received. The operation does not return any attributes.
```

.Errors
[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a*"]
|===
| Namespace | Type | Parent | Description

> | WSS | SECURITY_VALIDATING | - | Thrown when the request is not valid or no WS-Security information found

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| WSS | SECURITY_VALIDATING | n.a. | Thrown when the request is not valid or no WS-Security information is found
```

Reviewer: GLOBALLY replace "-" with "n.a." throughout.

> | WSS | MISSING_CERTIFICATE | - | Thrown when unable to get a certificate either from TrustStore or from Key Store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| WSS | MISSING_CERTIFICATE | n.a. | Thrown when unable to get a certificate from either the truststore or the keystore
```

|===

[[decrypt]]
== Decryption

> This example shows you how to decrpyt a request using a keystore:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows you how to decrpyt a request by using a keystore:
```

    <soap:Body><xenc:EncryptedData Id="ED-D77EFA434E6694DA5315531006937494" Type="http://www.w3.org/2001/04/xmlenc#Content" xmlns:xenc="http://www.w3.org/2001/04/xmlenc#"><xenc:EncryptionMethod Algorithm="http://www.w3.org/2001/04/xmlenc#aes128-cbc"/><ds:KeyInfo xmlns:ds="http://www.w3.org/2000/09/xmldsig#"><wsse:SecurityTokenReference wsse11:TokenType="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/oasis-wss-soap-message-security-1.1#EncryptedKey" xmlns:wsse="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-wssecurity-secext-1.0.xsd" xmlns:wsse11="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/oasis-wss-wssecurity-secext-1.1.xsd"><wsse:Reference URI="#EK-D77EFA434E6694DA5315531006937483"/></wsse:SecurityTokenReference></ds:KeyInfo><xenc:CipherData><xenc:CipherValue>vxJMblfqM9TtmZQmSWL9UzAVqSRWQSJMKxex4Lc8T0g3l/jPNaWQpUnyIdb8aMYSYbMSTfhpj4HlNnmiSm/rpboyBo/SkIRLdils/VE+JFjX4JkbRSefj4XDEY6g0hthQm5U4Z4B6NkdUQgd8xiumYW5PpqWHEsNEsZLE9udyPMS1VlEfZYMiMNhtVRPWkk5xBpH1LKx8P5k0UwgIxDUxOEDleJEt5CotalVH0FsffXHKI/lDcGHuY2HuTAkTW9UYkoascB9Ak3J5ypv4F/Nn1hmtJBsGSRd18auWDoXU7s=</xenc:CipherValue></xenc:CipherData></xenc:EncryptedData></soap:Body>
</soap:Envelope>
----

> 

Reviewer: Provide narrative transition between syntax examples.

</soap:Envelope>
------=_Part_8049_2119795515.1555963425591
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Disposition: related; name="file1"; filename="a.json"
Content-ID: file1

{
  "title": "Java 8 in Action",
  "author": "Mario Fusco",
  "year": 2014
}
------=_Part_8049_2119795515.1555963425591--
----

> 

Reviewer: Provide transition

.Decryption Example
[source,XML,linenums]
----
<wss:inbound-config name="decryption-config">
  <wss:decryption-config>
    <wss:keystore-config path="certificates/decrypt-keystore.jks"
                            password="changeit"
                            alias="s1as"
                            keyPassword="changeit" />
  </wss:decryption-config>
</wss:inbound-config>

<flow name="OrderTshirtServiceFlow">
  <http:listener config-ref="HTTP-listener-config" path="/order" />
  <wss:validate-wss config-ref="decryption-config" version="SOAP_12"/>
  <flow-ref name="OrderTshirtFlowImpl" />
</flow>
----

[[usernameToken]]

> == Validate UsernameToken

Reviewer: Because this is not a Task topic with steps, consider...:
```suggestion
== UsernameToken Validation
```

> The following examples show you how to validate against an <<ldap-validate,LDAP server>>, or a given <<username-password,username/password credentials pair>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples show you how to validate against either an <<ldap-validate,LDAP server>> or a provided <<username-password,username/password credentials pair>>.
```
I don't understand what comprise the pair: username and password + username and/or password?
We want to avoid using / to mean "and/or", but maybe this is syntax in this instance?

[[ldap-validate]]
=== LDAP Authentication

> Example of `usernameToken` validation against an LDAP server. The username and password from the request will be validated in the LDAP server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows `usernameToken` validation against an LDAP server. The username and password from the request are validated in the LDAP server.
```

.Request Example
[source,XML,linenums]
----
<soap:Envelope xmlns:ser="http://service.util.soap.mule.org/" xmlns:soap="http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope">
  <soap:Header>
    <wsse:Security xmlns:wsse="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-wssecurity-secext-1.0.xsd"
      xmlns:wsu="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-wssecurity-utility-1.0.xsd">
      <wsse:UsernameToken wsu:Id="UsernameToken-D77EFA434E6694DA53155311225135914">
        <wsse:Username>professor</wsse:Username>
        <wsse:Password Type="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-username-token-profile-1.0#PasswordText">professor</wsse:Password>
      </wsse:UsernameToken>
    </wsse:Security>
  </soap:Header>
  <soap:Body>
    <ser:echo>
      <text>test username</text>
    </ser:echo>
  </soap:Body>
</soap:Envelope>
----

> 

Reviewer: ditto trans

.Validation Example
[source,XML,linenums]
----
<wss:inbound-config name="ldap-config">
  <wss:username-config>
    <wss:authenticate-user-config>
      <wss:ldap-config providerUrl="ldap://localhost:${LDAP_PORT}"
             userDn="cn=admin,dc=planetexpress,dc=com"
             password="GoodNewsEveryone"
             searchBase="ou=people,dc=planetexpress,dc=com"
             searchFilter="(uid={0})"
             searchInSubtree="false"/>
    </wss:authenticate-user-config>
  </wss:username-config>
</wss:inbound-config>

<flow name="OrderTshirtServiceFlow">
  <http:listener config-ref="HTTP-listener-config" path="/order" />
  <wss:validate-wss config-ref="ldap-config" version="SOAP_12"/>
  <flow-ref name="OrderTshirtFlowImpl" />
</flow>
----

[[username-password]]
=== Credentials Authentication

> Example of a `usernameToken` validation against a configured pair of username and password:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example shows a `usernameToken` validation against a configured pair of username and password:
```

.Request Example
[source,XML,linenums]
----
<soap:Envelope xmlns:ser="http://service.util.soap.mule.org/" xmlns:soap="http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope">
    <soap:Header>
        <wsse:Security xmlns:wsse="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-wssecurity-secext-1.0.xsd"
                       xmlns:wsu="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-wssecurity-utility-1.0.xsd">
            <wsse:UsernameToken wsu:Id="UsernameToken-D77EFA434E6694DA53155311225135914">
                <wsse:Username>JuanDesimoni</wsse:Username>
                <wsse:Password Type="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-username-token-profile-1.0#PasswordText">messi</wsse:Password>
            </wsse:UsernameToken>
        </wsse:Security>
    </soap:Header>
    <soap:Body>
        <ser:echo>
            <text>test username</text>
        </ser:echo>
    </soap:Body>
</soap:Envelope>
----

> 

Reviewer: trans

----
------=_Part_8049_2119795515.1555963425591
Content-Type: application/soap+xml
Content-ID: main

<soap:Envelope xmlns:soap="http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope">
  <soap:Header>
    <wsse:Security xmlns:wsse="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-wssecurity-secext-1.0.xsd">
      <wsse:UsernameToken xmlns:wsu="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-wssecurity-utility-1.0.xsd" wsu:Id="UsernameToken-D77EFA434E6694DA53155311225135914">
        <wsse:Username>JuanDesimoni</wsse:Username>
        <wsse:Password Type="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-username-token-profile-1.0#PasswordText">messi</wsse:Password>
      </wsse:UsernameToken>
    </wsse:Security>
  </soap:Header>
  <soap:Body>
    <ser:echo xmlns:ser="http://service.util.soap.mule.org/">
      <text>test username</text>
    </ser:echo>
  </soap:Body>
</soap:Envelope>
------=_Part_8049_2119795515.1555963425591
Content-Type: application/json
Content-Disposition: related; name="file1"; filename="a.json"
Content-ID: file1

{
  "title": "Java 8 in Action",
  "author": "Mario Fusco",
  "year": 2014
}
------=_Part_8049_2119795515.1555963425591--
----

> 

Reviewer: trans

.Validation Example
[source,XML,linenums]
----
<wss:inbound-config name="username-config">
  <wss:username-config>
    <wss:authenticate-user-config>
      <wss:credentials-config username="messi" password="messi"/>
    </wss:authenticate-user-config>
  </wss:username-config>
</wss:inbound-config>

<flow name="OrderTshirtServiceFlow">
  <http:listener config-ref="HTTP-listener-config" path="/orderTshirt" />
  <wss:validate-wss config-ref="username-config" />
  <flow-ref name="OrderTshirtFlowImpl" />
</flow>
----

> 

Reviewer: BREAK HERE to commit

Reviewer: RESUME here

[[signature]]

> == Validate Signature

Reviewer: What follows is not the steps of a Task topic, so maybe...:
```suggestion
== Signature Validation
```

The following examples show you how to validate signatures in your incoming requests against a configured <<validate-trustore-signature,trustore>>, a <<validate-binary-security-token,binary security token>>, or a <<validate-x509-certificate,X.509 certificate>>.

[[validate-trustore-signature]]

> === Trustore

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Trustore Signature Validation
```

> Example of validation of the request signature against a configured truststore to ensure that only valid messages from trusted senders are received:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Following is an example of validation of the request signature against a configured truststore to ensure that only valid messages from trusted senders are received:
```

   <soapenv:Body wsu:Id="id-F8FAC4A91BEF76355615530303348174" xmlns:wsu="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-wssecurity-utility-1.0.xsd">
      <ser:echo>
         <!--Optional:-->
         <text>test</text>
      </ser:echo>
   </soapenv:Body>
</soapenv:Envelope>
----

.Validation Example
[source,XML,linenums]
----
<wss:inbound-config name="validate-signature-config">
  <wss:verify-signature-config>
    <wss:truststore-config path="certificates/verify-signature-truststore.jks" password="mulepassword"/>
  </wss:verify-signature-config>
</wss:inbound-config>

<flow name="OrderTshirtServiceFlow">
  <http:listener config-ref="HTTP-listener-config" path="/order" />
  <wss:validate-wss config-ref="validate-signature-config"/>
  <flow-ref name="OrderTshirtFlowImpl" />
</flow>
----

[[validate-binary-security-token]]

> === BinarySecurityToken Signature

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== BinarySecurityToken Signature Validation
```

> Example of validation against the truststore of a request signed with a Binary Security Token.

Reviewer: Although the class name is BinarySecurityToken, the object is lowercased:
```suggestion
Example of validation against the truststore of a request signed with a binary security token.
```

      <wor:Workorder>
         <InitiatingEvent>?</InitiatingEvent>
         <OriginatingDocumentNumber>?</OriginatingDocumentNumber>
         <StandardJob>?</StandardJob>
         <WorkorderDescription>?</WorkorderDescription>
         <Originator>?</Originator>
         <MaintenanceType>?</MaintenanceType>
         <EquipmentReference>?</EquipmentReference>
         <WorkorderType>?</WorkorderType>
         <WorkGroup>?</WorkGroup>
         <AccountCode>?</AccountCode>
      </wor:Workorder>
   </soapenv:Body>
</soapenv:Envelope>
----

.Validation Example
[source,XML,linenums]
----
<wss:inbound-config name="validate-signature-config">
  <wss:verify-signature-config>
    <wss:truststore-config path="certificates/sign-keystore.jks" password="mulepassword"/>
  </wss:verify-signature-config>
</wss:inbound-config>

<flow name="OrderTshirtServiceFlow">
  <http:listener config-ref="HTTP-listener-config" path="/order" />
  <wss:validate-wss config-ref="validate-signature-config"/>
  <flow-ref name="OrderTshirtFlowImpl" />
</flow>
----

[[validate-x509-certificate]]

> === X.509 Certificate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== X.509 Certificate Validation
```

> Example of validation of X.509 certificate issuer by pattern:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows validation of an X.509 certificate issuer by pattern:
```

   <soapenv:Body wsu:Id="id-F8FAC4A91BEF76355615530303348174" xmlns:wsu="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-wssecurity-utility-1.0.xsd">
      <ser:echo>
         <!--Optional:-->
         <text>test</text>
      </ser:echo>
   </soapenv:Body>
</soapenv:Envelope>
----

.Validation Example
[source,XML,linenums]
----
<wss:inbound-config name="validate-signature-config">
  <wss:verify-signature-config issuerPattern="CN=Unknown.*">
    <wss:truststore-config path="certificates/verify-signature-truststore.jks" password="mulepassword"/>
  </wss:verify-signature-config>
</wss:inbound-config>

<flow name="OrderTshirtServiceFlow">
  <http:listener config-ref="HTTP-listener-config" path="/order" />
  <wss:validate-wss config-ref="validate-signature-config"/>
  <flow-ref name="OrderTshirtFlowImpl" />
</flow>
----

[[timestamp]]

> == Validate Timestamp

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Timestamp Validation
```

----
<soap:Envelope xmlns:ser="http://service.util.soap.mule.org/" xmlns:soap="http://www.w3.org/2003/05/soap-envelope">
    <soap:Header>
        <wsse:Security xmlns:wsse="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-wssecurity-secext-1.0.xsd"
                       xmlns:wsu="http://docs.oasis-open.org/wss/2004/01/oasis-200401-wss-wssecurity-utility-1.0.xsd">
            <wsu:Timestamp wsu:Id="TS-D77EFA434E6694DA5315531011197435">
                <wsu:Created>##created##</wsu:Created>
                <wsu:Expires>##expires##</wsu:Expires>
            </wsu:Timestamp>
        </wsse:Security>
    </soap:Header>
    <soap:Body>
        <ser:echo>
            <text>test timestamp</text>
        </ser:echo>
    </soap:Body>
</soap:Envelope>
----

.Timestamp Validation Example
[source,XML,linenums]
----
<wss:inbound-config name="timestamp-config">
  <wss:timestamp-config timeToLive="100" precisionInMilliseconds="true"/>
</wss:inbound-config>

<flow name="OrderTshirtServiceFlow">
  <http:listener config-ref="HTTP-listener-config" path="/order" />
  <wss:validate-wss config-ref="timestamp-config"/>
  <flow-ref name="OrderTshirtFlowImpl" />
</flow>
----

[[saml]]

> == Validate SAML

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Validate SAML Assertions
```

> The following examples show you how to validate both <<signed-saml,signed>> or <<unsigned-saml,unsigned>> SAML assertions in your incoming SOAP requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following examples show you how to validate either <<signed-saml,signed>> or <<unsigned-saml,unsigned>> SAML assertions in your incoming SOAP requests.
```
OR
```suggestion
The following examples show you how to validate both <<signed-saml,signed>> and <<unsigned-saml,unsigned>> SAML assertions in your incoming SOAP requests.
```

[[signed-saml]]

> === Signed SAML Assertion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Signed SAML Assertion Validation
```

> Example of a signed SAML assertion that requires the `Subject Confirmation Method` to be `Bearer`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows a signed SAML assertion that requires the `Subject Confirmation Method` to be `Bearer`:
```

        </wsse:Security>
    </soap:Header>
   <soap:Body>
      <ser:echo>
         <text>test</text>
      </ser:echo>
   </soap:Body>
</soap:Envelope>
----

.Signed SAML Assertion Validation Example
[source,XML,linenums]
----
<wss:inbound-config name="validate-saml-config">
  <wss:verify-saml-config samlVersion="SAML20"
        requiredSubjectConfirmationMethod="BEARER"/>
</wss:inbound-config>

<flow name="OrderTshirtServiceFlow">
  <http:listener config-ref="HTTP-listener-config" path="/order" />
  <wss:validate-wss version="SOAP_11" config-ref="validate-saml-config"/>
  <flow-ref name="OrderTshirtFlowImpl" />
</flow>
----

[[unsigned-saml]]

> === Unsigned SAML Assertion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Unsigned SAML Assertion Validation
```

> Example of SAML assertion of unsigned SOAP message:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example shows SAML assertion of an unsigned SOAP message:
```
